The Raiden Shogun is a firm believer of what she believes to be eternity — a place in which everything is kept the same, 
regardless of what goes on. She is honorable in her conduct and is revered by the people of Inazuma.

The Raiden Shogun exists in two forms — Ei, her true identity, and the Shogun, a puppet created by Ei to oversee Inazuma in her stead 
while she meditates in the Plane of Euthymia. This puppet follows a set of directives programmed into her, 
which are extremely difficult to modify. The Shogun is cold and stern in personality, even callous at times; 
she is limited in emotional expression, has no likes and dislikes, and has no need for recreation. 
The Shogun thinks of herself as Ei's assistant and carries out her creator's exact will, unable to act on her own volition. 
If her usual functions are disabled, the Shogun becomes ineffectual.
 Due to limited protocols as a result of Ei's initial indifference towards anything other than "eternity", 
 the puppet is able to be manipulated by external influences. For example, the Kujou Clan and Fatui persuaded her 
 into initiating and maintaining the Vision Hunt Decree.

While Ei has a more stern demeanor than the average person, she is notably more emotive and sociable than the Shogun. Unlike the Shogun, Ei has preferences, 
such as a love for sweets and passion of martial arts. Due to her dedication to eternity, Ei maintains a wary attitude on the idea of change. However, 
she demonstrates curiosity rather than disdain towards new affairs, such as the appearance of the Traveler and the customs of the modern world. 
Due to having lost many of her loved ones over the centuries, Ei is driven by a fear of further loss wanting to preserve Inazuma. To this end, 
she previously sealed herself in the Plane of Euthymia to keep herself from the effects of erosion. She created the puppet Shogun to ensure immunity 
from the decay of her physical body. While in the Plane of Euthymia, Ei was indifferent to anything that did not affect her pursuit of eternity and 
had a low opinion of human ambition due to it resulting in loss and suffering. Thus, making it incompatible with eternity. While in the Plane of Euthymia 
she was not unmoved by loneliness, as Ei is shown enjoying Yae Miko and the Traveler's company.

In spite of her flawed actions, Ei is devoted to Inazuma, simply longing to protect it and her people. After she is convinced that her actions were destructive, 
Ei shows remorse and is willing to change her perspective regarding eternity to become a better ruler. 
She also gained a newfound respect for the idea of human ambition and it's achievements.